Hey we'll come back from here on out.
We're going to focus on using regular expressions inside of Python.
Up until this point we've been doing things in the browser we've been learning the syntax of regular
expressions but we've been doing it outside of Python just on its own.
Now we're going to see how we write Python code that will match a string using a given regular expression
or define a function that returns true if something matches a pattern or false it doesn't.
Or another function that extracts all matches from a given string and returns them in a list that sort
of thing which is really where regexp is useful.
I mean it's nice to know how to write them on their own but usually want to write code using them or
write code that utilizes rejects.
So the magic comes from the art.
The module can find it on the docs here stands for regular expressions a regular expression.
The docs go into detail on all the characters we've already seen plus and question mark plus a couple
of more that we didn't have time to talk about.
You can definitely learn a lot more about them here.
But if you keep scrolling down here we go we can see the contents of the module itself which is the
methods that we'll use and there are a couple here that will focus on there's things I compile which
we'll see in this video.
There are other methods search.
We'll see.
There's one called Match split find all sub.
We're not going to go over every single method.
And when I'm mainly focused on defining a regular expression as a string and then compiling it into
a regular expression object and using that to find matches in another string.
So back to the slides I have an example of that.
So this slide shows a common pattern for using the r e module.
We start off by importing Ari have to do that.
And then what we do is create a regular expression object using a projects that we have written already.
So that's here I'll come back to this are in just a second but this is review.
This is going to capture or match a phone number a very simple one.
We're not dealing with parens.
It has to match a format three numbers a space three numbers a dash for numbers.
So like this right here.
So what we're going to do is we take the regular expression in a string.
This are is it stands for raw string.
I'll explain why we do that in a moment.
But for now we'll just always do an R in front of the string and then we call our compile and pass that
all in.
So our e-com compile will create the regular expression object for us.
We're not going to go into much detail into what it is but it just contains a lot of methods on it.
And one of those methods is called search.
So we saved it to a variable called pattern or whatever you want phone projects read shred Jacs it's
up to you.
I'm calling my pattern because I just wanted a short name because these get very long and I'll soon
hit the border of my code block here.
But I would probably call it phone pattern or phone projects personally.
Then down here I can call pattern search.
So using that pattern search and passing a string and in my case I have the string call me at 4 1 5
5 5 5 4 2 4 2 and then I'm saving the result of pattern search to the register result variable and we'll
see what this is what comes back.
It doesn't just automatically give us the match or anything like that.
It gives us a match object which we then can ask for certain specifics about the match will go into
detail into how it works but just know that it doesn't give you the match automatically doesn't just
return a string like this.
It returns an entire match object.
But let's start by just playing around with this on our own.
So I'll go to my terminal and we'll start by importing aren't we.
And then I'm going to create the pattern pattern.
Equals are compiled.
And then in here I'm going to just write a simple rejects and if I don't do a rostering if I don't put
the R here the complication is that anytime we want to use a backslash like for digit we actually need
to do two backslashes Because remember how strings work in Python that we used backslashes for escape
characters or escape sequences.
So we have to escape them here to actually say no I actually want a backslash instead of that if we
put an R here we're able to just use regular backslashes.
It stands for rostering pretty much anytime you write a regular expression.
Put are there use or rostering that way when you type of backslash it actually is a backslash.
Unlike you know if we had this and I did backslash let's say T for example.
That's going to give us a tab character and what we want is actually backslash t if it's a regular expression
so that they are there and we'll do digit three times.
Space backslash D for another number.
Numerical digit.
We want three again dash back backslash digits 4.
So this defines the pattern.
Make sure I don't have any typos.
Looks good.
And if we look at what pattern is if we run type on pattern I can see it is a regular expression pattern.
If we run help on it you can see that it's a comp. regular expression object as opposed to methods.
The one we're going to focus on is called Search scan through string looking for a match and return
to return a corresponding match object instance return None if no position in the string matches.
OK.
So we have to find our pattern here which you've just called pattern it's our projects.
Now we can call pattern search and I'm going to save it to a variable called results pattern search
and then what's the string you want to search.
Let's do to start something that doesn't match just a bunch of numbers and letters and I look at reds.
It has none in it.
The value of None.
But if I now do this again and I search for.
I don't know.
It's the same thing.
Call me at and then I'll put a number in here.
Let's go 3 1 0 4 4 5 5 dash 9 8 7 6.
We have one too many don't.
There we go.
OK.
So that's a valid phone number that should match.
And if we look at Reds now we have a match object.
OK.
So we have a match object the way that we actually get the match out.
We can call rez dot group in parentheses.
It's a method and it shows us the match 3 1 0 4 4 5 dash 9 8 7 6.
So we could use that successfully extract successfully extracted the phone number out of this string.
Let's try it one more time but let's have two numbers.
Call me at 3 1 0 4 4 5 9 8 7 6 4 3 1 No.
This part haven't come up with these things or this number.
If you read that group it still only gives us the first match.
And if we go to the doctor you can see the behavior of search string looking for the first location
where the rejects pattern produces a match and returns a corresponding match object.
So it doesn't support finding more than one match.
Instead if we wanted to we could instead do dot arrays equals pattern dot instead of search where you
find all.
And if we go to the Doxey can read about find all ways.
Here we go return all non-overlapping matches of pattern in string as a list of strings.
So it gives it to us this time as a list of strings.
If we look at Reds It's a list of two strings.
One last thing before and this video you've seen me compiling the regular expressions before I use them
like I did appear.
Technically you don't have to do that.
If you look in the docs there's a division between module contents.
So if we look at something like search there's r e search.
And if we use our search we actually have to pass the pattern in a string versus if we keep scrolling
down there's rejects.
Regular Expression object search.
That's what we've been using.
We've made a regex object first we compiled it and then called search on it but we could also do this
R E dot search and then we pass in the regular expression.
So I'll copy and paste it in and then comma and then something to search let's just do the same string.
Ok so we can do it like this.
Barakaat search give it the regular expression comma something to search and it gives us the same result.
We just need to do a group on the end to get the string.
The difference between the two is that here we are compiling it separately and saving it to a variable.
Where's that appear.
That means it's only compiled one time and then every time we use it afterwards it doesn't have to be
compiled again.
It's already been done.
It's turned compile just means it's turned into a regular expression object a Python object behind the
scenes here.
Every time this line is called the search it's going to recompile whatever the string is.
So if you're reusing a regular expression more than once you want to be able to test multiple things.
Or you could compile it once at the beginning of your application and then you don't have to recompile
it over and over every time you search because instead you can call the regular expression object search
rather than are module that search.
Same thing with all the other methods like.
What was the other one find all we can do are find all and pass in the regular expression and then a
search string.
But if you're using that regular expression pattern more than once it's more efficient.
It's cleaner to define it first and compile it separately and then call back to that pattern.
OK hopefully that explanation made a little sense.
If not if you're confused.
Just always compile your projects first.
It can't really hurt to do that.
It's an extra line but it's better.
It's kind of more traditional.
Also just a better habit to get into.
So compile it first and then use that whatever you save that variable like pattern case and call pattern
search or pattern find all and search.
What a lot of the time I end up using sometimes you're trying to find multiple instances of things in
a string.
But a lot of the time you're trying to find one thing or to make sure that one string matches a pattern.
Exactly.
OK.
That's it.
Next we're going to continue on and just learn a bit more about rejection Python.